The transfer of vocational education and training (VET) systems is currently an important topic in international debates (Davoine and Deitmer Citation2020; Maurer and Gonon Citation2014a; Valiente and Scandurra Citation2017; Allais Citation2010; King Citation2014; McGrath Citation2002). The reasons given for policy transfer in the VET sector are complex and include aspects like (youth) unemployment reduction, poverty reduction, equipping skilled workers and increasing economic growth (Wiriadidjaja, Andriasanti, and Jane Citation2019; Stockmann Citation2019; France Diplomacy Citation2019; Bank et al. Citation2015). However, surprisingly little recent research has explored issues such as practicability, successes achieved, problems encountered, and long-term effects. Scholars are more likely to focus on the theoretical basis for training transfer (Dolowitz and Marsh Citation2000), or on options for transfer at a more intermediate level of abstraction (Gonon Citation2014). Policy transfer’ can be defined in various ways, and this can be confusing – partly due to the nuances involved of policy transfer, and partly due to the fact that different definitions have emerged within different academic disciplines. For example, the terms ‘policy learning’ and ‘policy transfer’ are used in political science, while ‘policy diffusion’ and ‘policy reception’ are used in sociology, social anthropology, and historical studies. The terms ‘policy borrowing’ and ‘policy lending’ originated in the comparative educational sciences (Finegold et al. Citation1993; Steiner-Khamsi Citation2012). Terms such as transfer, export, and policy borrowing or learning are also imprecisely defined or controversial, partly because different disciplines use different metaphors for the policy transfer process. Policy transfer is commonly used in the international and interdisciplinary context: this term covers the transfer of education, but it also implies the transfer of procedures, measures, strategies, and concepts in the broadest sense (Rose Citation1991). The following discussion is not limited to a narrow conceptualisation of policy at the systemic level; it also focuses on micro-political transfer activities that are highly relevant to VET. It will build on Hulme’s (Citation2005) ideas about the ‘movement of ideas and practices’ and apply the term ‘policy’ in its broadest sense.Footnote1 It will demonstrate that policy transfer as it relates to VETFootnote2 is not the exclusive domain of scholars working in international comparative VET research; it is related to work being conducted in various disciplines and from different perspectives. However, scholars working in all disciplines are guided by the same basic questions related to the dimensions of the motives of the transfer, the actors involved, the transfer process, the object of the transfer and the degree of success of the transfer (e.g. Rahimi and Smith Citation2017). In other words, what is transferred, how, and with what results, and which factors are decisive? This literature review synthesises the findings from different disciplines, exploring differences and similarities; the results provide important lessons for scholars working in comparative vocational training research. We have selected a narrative approach to investigate this complex topic (Ferrari Citation2015). This technique is particularly useful in this context because it can incorporate literature from different countries and different languages in appropriate and meaningful ways, despite the different terminology used (Hammersley Citation2006). This extensive literature review includes contributions from scientific journals, anthologies, and monographs from recognised institutions. It does not include project reports or other reports on single implementation at the micro-level, because they have little value in terms of scientific generalisation. We searched electronic databases, and also conducted research in libraries and by applying a snowballing strategy, to find research published in English and also German, due to the special importance of the topic in German-speaking countries (e.g. iMove Citation2020). We have included theoretical and conceptual contributions, as well as empirical studies on policy transfer. All publications were assessed for quality, including the standards of scientific work, such as the review process, quality of citation, etc. Relevant themes were identified using inductive category formation. The next sections introduce policy transfer research from various disciplines. Each discipline is discussed separately – first by outlining the specific focus of each discipline, followed by an exploration of the relevant theoretical, conceptual and empirical results. Finally, we synthesise the results from all disciplines to derive conclusions and possible directions for future research.